## v0.27.0 (2018-03-12)

### Added 
+ Mesh Translation: Add support for glimpse user data attributes during import / export
+ Added a Translate command "AL_usdmaya_TranslatePrim" that allows you to selectively run the Translator for a set of Prim Paths to either Import or Teardown the prim. Tutorial on the way! 
+ preTearDown writes Meshes Translated to Maya to EditTarget 
+ Library Refactor: Refactored to seperate code into multiple libraries: see change [DeveloperDocumentation](README.md#developer-documentation)


### Changed

+ Tests: TranslatorContext.TranslatorContext was failing because there was an extra insert into the context in the MayaReference import. Also there was a filter on the tests which needed to be nuked!
+ Docs: Small update to build.md
+ Mesh Translation: updated glimpse subdivision attribute handling
+ Store maya_associatedReferenceNode in custom data This is to stop USD from complaining about: "Error in 'pxrInternal_v0_8__pxrReserved__::UsdStage::_HandleLayersDidChange' at line 3355 in file stage.cpp : 'Detected usd threading violation.  Concurrent changes to layer(s) composed in stage 0x185f5a50 rooted at @usdfile.usda@.  (serial=6, lastSerial=12).'
+ Updated AL_usdmaya_LayerCreateLayer command to add layers to Sublayers
+ Proxy Shape and transform nodes names now match
+ Update to USD-0.8.3


### Known Bugs/Limitations:
+ Variant Switch with Maya Meshes causes a crash
+ AL_usdmaya_TranslatePrim generates multiple copies of meshes
+ AL_usdmaya_ProxyShapeImportPrimPathAsMaya not using new Mesh Translation functionality



## v0.26.1 (2018-03-02)

### Added

* Doxygen comments, tutorial and unit test for ModelAPI::GetLock(), ModelAPI::SetLock() and ModelAPI::ComputeLock().


### Changed

Change default lock behaviour of al_usdmaya_lock metadata. "transform" will lock current prim and all its children.
-GetSelectabilityValue method is now called GetSelectability
-Implementation of ComputeLock() is modified to reuse common code structure.
-Library name AL_Utils -> AL_EventSystem


### Fixed

- Issue with the ProxyShapeIimport command not loading payloads correctly.
- AL_USDMayaSchema's pixar plugin was not being loaded during it's tests
* Blocked the usd stage being reloaded when the filePath changes, when loading a maya file. This ensures all proxy shape attributes are initialised prior to reloading the stage.
- Crash when moving a locked prim
- Locking not working on maya hierarchies that appear and disappear on selection
- "Error : No proxyShape specified/selected " when attempting to add a sublayer via the UI

## v0.26.0 (2018-02-09)

### Added

* Overloads for the MPxTransform::isBounded() and MPxTransform::boundingBox() methods to provide the transforms with a bounding box to enable usage of frame selected
* ProxyShape::usdStage() to directly return the proxys shape stage without triggering a compute
* Extended Python bindings for ProxyShape class
* Flag to keep temporary test files generated by AL_USDMayaTestPlugin

### Changed

* Uses USD-0.8.2
* Reduced the overall number of pulls on the outStage data attribute
* Replaced the use of MMessage callbacks in favour of a scheduled system allowing control of maya events over a number of plugins and tools
* the -identifiers/-id flag is set.  This makes it more in line with all the other flags for the command (and more
  flexible), but is a change in behavior - previously, the muted layers would ALWAYS be returned as identifier
* Removed QT dependency in favour of Maya's keyboard getModifiers command
* Total revamp of how layers and edited layers are stored by AL_USDMaya

### Removed

* The insertFirst / insertLast concept in the maya events system

### Fixed

* Incorrect spot cone angles were being passed to Hydra in VP2
* Animated attributes could end up being added to the export list multiple times
* Ik chains needed to be inspected to ensure the animated values were correctly exported
* Animation caused via geometry constraints would not be exported
* regression that printed out various malformed sdfpath errors in unit tests
* Add AL pkgutil fallback for environments without pkg_resources
* ProxyShapeImport command now correctly takes `ul` parameter to direct if it should load payloads or not
* Bug where it was possible to select a transform outside the proxyshape using the 'up' key
* Bug with CommandGuiHelper where if it has errors building it would stay hidden, it now deletes and rebuilds itself
* Bug where addListOption would error if any list items had any characters that need to be quoted 
* Crash when a prim is selected multiple times via command
* Crash if set xform values on an invalid prim
* Crash when pushToPrim is triggered but the prim is invalid
* Crash fix for when switching back + forth between a usd-camera and a maya-referenced camera

## v0.25.0 (2017-11-28)

### Added

* New metadata and logic to lock transform and disable pushToPrim.
* A boolean option "meshUV" or "muv" in AL_usdmaya_ExportCommand to indicate only export mesh uv data to a scene hierarchy with empty over prims.
* A boolean option "leftHandedUV" or "luv" in AL_usdmaya_ExportCommand to indicate whether to adjust uv indices orientation. This option only works with "meshUV"

### Changed

* Add special rules for some Maya-USD attribute type mismatches so the maya attribute values transfer correctly to USD prim, e.g. interpolateBoundary attribute on mesh.
* When translate, rotate, scale attributes are locked, TransformationMatrix blocks any changes of these attributes.
* In mesh import, leftHanded flag retrieved from USD will also decide if uv indices need be adjusted.

### Removed

* Host Driven Transforms

## v0.24.5 (2017-11-06)

### Fixed

* Remove leftover file

## v0.24.4 (2017-10-18)

### Changed

* Update to USD-0.8.1

## v0.24.3 (2017-10-18)

### Fixed

In same cases when there was geometry in VP2 behind some maya objects, some maya objects wouldn't be selected

## v0.24.2 (2017-10-17)

### Fixed

* Fix for [#24](https://github.com/AnimalLogic/AL_USDMaya/issues/24). This is really to avoid poping objects while selecting and does not represent a long term solution.
Selecting maya nodes that were outside of the proxyshape were causing a "Root path must be absolute (<>) " error.

## v0.24.1 (2017-10-10)

### Added

SelectionDB that stores all the paths that are selectable.

### Changed

Move all the selection commands into a different cpp file.

## v0.24.0 (2017-10-09)

### Fixed

* Update test_PrimFilter to not rely on external files

## v0.23.9 (2017-09-20)
### Added
* Added missing header files from nodes/proxy directory into released package
* AL_usdmaya_UsdDebugCommand to allow you to modify and query the TfDebug notifications
* Added a new Debug GUI that lets you enable/disable which TfDebug notices are output to the command prompt
* ProxyShape now calls ConfigureResolverForAsset with the USD file path that is being open, which is similar to what usdview does.

## v0.23.7 (2017-09-15)
### Fixed
* bug where enabling/disabling certain prims could cause an infinite loop.

## v0.23.6 (2017-09-12)
### Fixed
+ Bug where if the variant selection is called twice before it gets processed

## v0.23.5
* Prevent viewport refresh at end of animation export that can cause a VP2 crash.

## v0.23.2
* Consolidated debug traces to use TF_DEBUG, see developers documentation for available flags.

## v0.23.1
* Bug Fix: Maya 2016 build.

## v0.22.1
* Bug Fix: Fixed playblast issue that caused drift in caches when using animated film offsets on the camera

## v0.22.0
* Bug Fix: Fixed crash in prim resync command when passed an invalid prim path
* Removed unused pxr directory
* Bug Fix: Schemas generation
* Bug Fix: the maya reference update code was double-loading references when switching paths.

## v0.21.0
* Removed legacy TRA Array attributes from the proxy shape
* Bug Fix: Fixed issue that could cause translator plugins to be uninitialised when proxy shape was first created
* Updated to USD 0.8.0
* Various cmake/build improvements

## v0.20.1
* Improvements to colour set export on mesh geometry
* Bug Fix: Force parallel evaluation when running unit tests
* Removed unused asset resolver config
* Bug Fix: Improve selection between maya geometry and usd geometry

## v0.20.0
* Hooked up display Guides + displayRenderGuides attributes to usdImaging
* Added MEL command to provide a simple selection mechanism in USD imaging layer
* Reduced the number of times the translators were being initialized to once per proxy shape instance. 
* Added ability for the translators to say they support an inactive state (so nodes don't get deleted)
* Added reference counting for kRequired transforms. 
* Bug Fix: If a prim changed type as a result of a variant switch, the type info was not updated in the translator context
* Bug Fix: Shapes, Transforms, and DG nodes now correctly deleted (without leaving transforms)
* Bug Fix: Fixed issue where we could end up with invalid transform references in some very rare edge cases
* Bug Fix: Fixed issue where invalid MObjects could be generated within transform reference generation. 
* Bug Fix: Switching from a plugin prim type, to an ignored cache prim, could leave transforms in the scene
* Added the AL_usdmaya_ProxyShapeSelect command to select prims via a command (supports undo/redo). 
* Promoted the CameraTranslator to a properly implemented translator plugin

## v0.19.0
* Added Open Source Licencing
* Documentation Refactor
* Addded End-to-End Tutorial
* Added MayaReference and HostDrivenTransformInfo schema (_the opensource repository is now deprecated_)
* Added MayaReference translator (_the opensource repository is now deprecated_)

## v0.18.1
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: Fixed issue with custom transform types not being correctly serialised on file Save
* Bug Fix: Fixed issue with transforms with identical names not being correctly deserialised
* Added support for the Intel F16C half-float conversion intrinsics

## v0.18.0
**Change Log**
* AL_usdmaya_LayerCurrentEditTarget command can now take a layer identifier to specify the target layer
* New command AL_usdmaya_LayerCreateLayer added 
* Updated docker config
* Bug Fix: Unchecked pointer access in SchemaNodeRefDB::removeEntries
* proxyShapeImport GUI now displays all usd file types
* Bug Fix: Colour sets now correctly applied on import
* Bug Fix: Maya 2018 compatibility changes

## v0.17.0
**Change Log**
* Built against usd-0.7.5
* Switching StageData to use a UsdStageWeakPtr to avoid keeping some stages alive forever.
* Copy the edit target instead and re-use it when setting it back.
* Add CHANGELOG.md
* Bug Fix: Fixes to make the unit tests run in mayabatch mode.
* Bug Fix: Use shared_ptr to manage driven transform data life time. [#263]
* Bug Fix: Fixing a possible crash with the curve importer.
* Bug Fix: Avoiding a crash when importing a camera.

## v0.16.9
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: Previous selection crash-fix, that re-parented custom transforms under a temporary, would cause a change in the 
           selection list, which resulted in a crash. 
* Bug Fix: Fixed crash in removeUsdTransforms as a result of Maya deleting the parent of a custom transform
* Bug Fix: Hydra selection highlighting was being overwritten when performing Shift+Select
* The proxy shape now responds to changes of the Active state of plugin translator prims
* Maya 2016 now supported
 
## v0.16.8
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: fixing a regression that would cause the transform hierarchy to be incorrect
 
## v0.16.7
**Change Log**
* Changes to the driven transforms on the proxy shape
* Ported from CPP unit to googletest, and moved all tests into a test plugin.
* Code now compiles against Maya 2018 beta77
* Bug Fix: session layer handle was incorrectly being wiped after a file load, which could cause a crash
* Bug Fix: Layer::getSubLayers would fail after the scene was reloaded. 
* Bug Fix: Incorrectly warned of storable message attributes
* Bug Fix: Unitialised layer handles could cause a crash
* Bug Fix: Deleting AL_usdmaya_Transform nodes would cause parent transforms to be deleted. 
* Bug Fix: Layer::getParentLayer returning invalid value
* Bug Fix: getAttr "layerNode.framePrecision" now works as expected
* Bug Fix: Chaning the USD edit target now correctly updates the 'hasBeenEditTarget' flag
* Bug Fix: Animated Shear 
* Bug Fix: AL_usdmaya_TransformationMatrix::getTimeCode now correctly returns the animated time values
* Bug Fix: AL_usdmaya_TransformationMatrix::enablePushToPrim would incorrectly create a scalePivot transformation op
* Bug Fix: AL_usdmaya_TransformationMatrix could fail to update if frame 0 was the first animation frame in a sequence. 
* Bug Fix: Selecting a parent of a selected transform, would cause a crash in Maya. 

## v0.16.6
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: Matrix driven transform node could write an invalid key into the session layer, nuking animation cache data. 
* Bug Fix: Excluded geometry became visible on reload. 
* Bug Fix: Removed option box from Import Proxy Shape (was causing a crash).
* Improvement: Proxy Shape now runs the post-load process immediately, rather than waiting on a defferred MEL call. 

## v0.16.5
**Change Log**
* Ability to set Edit Targets with a map function
* Bug Fix: Edit Targets not correctly preserved during selection changes
* Bug Fix: Export command strips namespaces to avoid crash
* Bug Fix: Camera transforms now correctly animate
* readFromTimeline attribute added to AL_usdmaya_Transform to control when transforms display custom or animated values.

## v0.16.4
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: playblasts were coming out black
* Bug Fix: OpenGL state not preserved in VP1

## v0.16.3
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: excluded objects not hidden after file load
* Bug Fix: Prevented crash within draw override. 

## v0.16.2
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: excluded objects not hidden after variant switch

## v0.16.1
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: Fixed incorrect depth settings when rendering in Hydra
* Bug Fix: Fixed complexity issue that caused warnings to be spammed into the command prompt. 

## v0.16.0
**Change Log**
* Switched code over to use UsdImaging rather than UsdMayaGL library
* Updated USD base to 0.7.4
* Selection highlighting now visible in the maya viewport. 

## v0.12.1
**Change Log**
* Variant Switching now supported
* Minor Menu GUI improvements
* Dead code removal
* open sourcing prep work, and documentation

## v0.9.14
**Change Log**
*Updated to support ALMayaReferences

**Known Issues**
*Having objects that have a MayaReference to the same path on disk has been reported to cause problems.

## v0.9.13
**Change Log**
*Disabled Asset Resolver Configuration

## v0.9.12
**Change Log**
* "add AL_USDMaya library to python bindings linked libraries"
* Importing of animated attributes

## v0.9.10
**Change Log**
* Updated the AL/__init__.py to merge in with the existing AL module to avoid  UsdMaya from stomping on PythongLibs' AL module.

## v0.9.8
**Change Log**
* Bug Fix: Scenes no longer crash in parallel evaluation mode. http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/41
* Bug Fix: Maya no longer crashes when modifying the filepath attribute of a proxyshape node. http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/121
* Bug Fix: Frame range incorrectly set when opening a shot. http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/72
* Bug Fix: maya crash if rig ref missing. http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/84
* Massive rename of nodes, and commands. The previous names (e.g. alUsdProxyShape) have been standardised with the rest of AL, so now it's 'AL_usdmaya_ProxyShape'.
* Support for the export of animated cameras via the 'AL usdmaya Export' translator
* The AL usdmaya plugin has been divorced from the orignal PXR maya plugin
* Remaining python code has been moved, previously you had to import the module by 'from pxrUsd import UsdMaya', now you should use 'from AL import UsdMaya'. 

**Known issues**
* Missing usdImport and usdExport command for animated data - http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/108
* TLS Problem in maya 2017 - you may have to switch off other plugins when working with our USD Plugin. See https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/usd-interest/wJr8c_iTO7k

## v0.9.6
**Change Log**
* Prim->MayaPath: Prim's that translate into a corresponding maya shape now point to the transform above the shape instead of ths shape
* Enabled backface culling in the proxyshapeUi
* Fixed "picaso" bug

**Known issues**
* Missing usdImport and usdExport command for animated data - http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/108
* TLS Problem in maya 2017 - you may have to switch off other plugins when working with our USD Plugin. See https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/usd-interest/wJr8c_iTO7k
* DG Parallel Eval: http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/41
* Frame Range http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/72
* Crash if ref rig missing http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/84

## v0.9.5
**Change Log**
* Simple profiler
* Global Command Executor problems
* Removed pixar mayaUsd source that isn't being used

**Known issues**
* Missing usdImport and usdExport command for animated data - http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/108
* TLS Problem in maya 2017 - you may have to switch off other plugins when working with our USD Plugin. See https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/usd-interest/wJr8c_iTO7k
* DG Parallel Eval: http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/41
* Frame Range http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/72
* Crash if ref rig missing http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/84

## v0.9.4
**Change Log**
* New patch for Maya PR71

**Known issues**
* TLS Problem in maya 2017 - you may have to switch off other plugins when working with our USD Plugin. See https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/usd-interest/wJr8c_iTO7k
* DG Parallel Eval: http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/41
* Frame Range http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/72
* Crash if ref rig missing http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/84

## v0.9.3
**Change Log**
* Added all_tests target which will be the target ran by the usdMaya_BUILD jenkins job.
* BugFix: Fixed MayaCache: http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/37

**Known issues**
* TLS Problem in maya 2017 - you may have to switch off other plugins when working with our USD Plugin. See https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/usd-interest/wJr8c_iTO7k
* DG Parallel Eval: http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/41
* Frame Range http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/72
* Crash if ref rig missing http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/84

## v0.9.2
**Documentation**
http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/wiki

**Change Log**
* Initial UsdMaya unit tests.
* Fix for rabbit vertex windings, rabbit now shows correctly as white.
* Fix for UsdPrim->usdMaya path.
* Fix for crash when burnin can't find parent path.
* Fix for multiple rabbits, now correctly shows one rabbit

**Known issues**
* TLS Problem in maya 2017 - you may have to switch off other plugins when working with our USD Plugin. See https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/usd-interest/wJr8c_iTO7k
* MayaCache: http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/37
* DG Parallel Eval: http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/41
* Frame Range http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/72
* Crash if ref rig missing http://github.al.com.au/rnd/usdMaya/issues/84


